Updating docker docs (#402)
voxel51/fiftyone-teams-app-deploy: docker/README.md

The FiftyOne Enterprise Docker Compose files are the recommended way to
install and configure FiftyOne Enterprise on Docker.

This guide walks you through the steps for installing FiftyOne Enterprise 
using Docker Compose. It also includes advanced configuration, environment variables, 
and upgrade considerations. This page assumes general knowledge of FiftyOne Enterprise and how to use it.
Please contact Voxel51 for more information regarding FiftyOne Enterprise.

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Step 1: Prepare License File](#step-1-prepare-license-file)
- [Step 2: Choose Authentication Mode](#step-2-choose-authentication-mode)
- [Step 3: Configure Environment](#step-3-configure-environment)
- [Step 4: Initial Deployment](#step-4-initial-deployment)
- [Step 5: Configure SSL & Reverse Proxy (Nginx / Load Balancer)](#step-5-ssl-reverse-proxy)
- [Step 6: Configuring FiftyOne Enterprise Plugins](#step-6-configuring-plugins)
- [Step 7: Configuring FiftyOne Enterprise Delegated Operators](#step-7-delegated-operators)
- [Step 8: Configuring Authentication (CAS)](#configuring-auth)
- [Upgrades](#upgrades)
- [Known Issues](#known-issues)

> - [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration)

Author: To be clear - I would like to override the automated table of contents generation in the pre-commit hook. Is that possible @kevin-dimichel ?

- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- License file from Voxel51
- Docker Hub credentials from Voxel51
- MongoDB instance available. FiftyOne Teams is compatible with MongoDB Community, Enterprise, or Atlas Editions.
  - If using MongoDB Community or Enterprise we recommend a minimum of 4vCPU and 16GB of RAM. Large datasets and 
  complex samples may require additional resources.
  - If using Atlas we recommend starting on at least a M40 cluster tier - you can then use utilization metrics to 
  make scaling decisions (up or down). Please note that we do not   support MongoDB Atlas Serverless instances 
  because we require Aggregations.

## Step 1: Prepare License File

> > Required for **v2.0+**

Author: This is just a styling thing to make sure it stands out from the rest of the text. As this is a nit- I would like to keep this styling.

> picked up immediately, you may need to restart the `teams-cas` and
> `teams-api` services.

## Step 2: Choose Authentication Mode

FiftyOne Enterprise offers two authentication modes:

- `legacy-auth` → Choose this mode if using Auth0 for user authentication and authorization.
- `internal-auth` → Choose this mode when in an airgapped deployment - aigapped deployments 

> will not require network egress to external services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will not require network egress to Auth0.
```

### 👉 Choose your mode

Navigate into the appropriate directory:

```bash
cd legacy-auth       # or internal-auth
```

## Step 3: Configure Environment

### 1. Copy the template `.env` file:

```
cp env.template .env
```

### 2. Fill out required values in `.env`

At minimum, configure:

- `BASE_URL` / `AUTH0_BASE_URL` - Your WebApp URL
- `FIFTYONE_API_URI` - Your API URL (can be the same as webApp URL if using path-based routing)
- `FIFTYONE_DATABASE_URI` – Your MongoDB connection URI

> - `FIFTYONE_ENCRYPTION_KEY` – Used to encrypt storage credentials

Reviewer: Might this information be better presented as a table? Like

```markdown
| Variable                      | Description                                                              |
|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `BASE_URL` / `AUTH0_BASE_URL` | Your WebApp URL                                                          |
| `FIFTYONE_API_URI`            | Your API URL (can be the same as webApp URL if using path-based routing) |
| `FIFTYONE_DATABASE_URI`       | Your MongoDB connection URI                                              |
| `FIFTYONE_ENCRYPTION_KEY`     | Used to encrypt storage credentials                                      |
```

> > 🔑 To generate a key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🔑 To generate a key:
```

```
from cryptography.fernet import Fernet
print(Fernet.generate_key().decode())
```

> - `LOCAL_LICENSE_FILE_DIR` – Path where the license is mounted

Reviewer: The continuation of the list feels disjointed. Instead, before the list, we could include instructions for how to create the key. And then keep the list (or table) continuous.

- `FIFTYONE_AUTH_SECRET` – Shared secret for CAS and App auth
- Any other variables noted in the `.env.template` or listed in the [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section

### 3. Create a `compose.override.yaml` to override configuration.

```
services:
  fiftyone-app:
    environment:

>       FIFTYONE_DATABASE_ADMIN: true  # Only for first install

Reviewer: @afoley587 - I thought we determined that we no longer need to set `FIFTYONE_DATABASE_ADMIN=true` for initial installs

Reviewer 2: You are correct! `FIFTYONE_DATABASE_ADMIN=true` is no longer needed for initial installs.

```

### 📦 Official Docker Images

Voxel51 publishes the following private FiftyOne Enterprise images to Docker Hub:

- `voxel51/fiftyone-app`
- `voxel51/fiftyone-app-gpt`
- `voxel51/fiftyone-app-torch` ← for text similarity / PyTorch support
- `voxel51/fiftyone-teams-api`
- `voxel51/fiftyone-teams-app`
- `voxel51/fiftyone-teams-cas`
- `voxel51/fiftyone-teams-cv-full` ← full CV/ML environment

> > 🔐 For access, contact your Voxel51 support team to obtain Docker Hub credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🔐 To access images from our private Gocker registry, contact your Voxel51 support team to obtain Docker Hub credentials.
```

> You can override the default image used by any service in `compose.override.yaml`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may override the default image used by any service in `compose.override.yaml`. For example:
```

```
services:
  fiftyone-app:
    image: voxel51/fiftyone-app-torch:v2.10.0
```

## Step 4: Initial Deployment

### 1. Enable Database Admin mode

In `compose.override.yaml`, make sure:

```
services:
  fiftyone-app:
    environment:
      FIFTYONE_DATABASE_ADMIN: true
```

> This allows the application to create and migrate the database schema.

### 2. Launch the application

In the same directory:

```
docker compose up -d
```

This will start the following containers:

- `fiftyone-teams-app` (UI) → default port `3000`
- `fiftyone-teams-api` (API) → default port `8000`

> - `fiftyone-teams-cas` (Auth) → default port `3030`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fiftyone-teams-cas` (Authentication) → default port `3030`
```

> You can ensure that all your containers are up and healthy through:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may ensure that all your containers are up and healthy by running:
```

```
docker compose ps
```

For HTTP-based health checks, run the following `curl` commands:

```
curl -Iv http://localhost:3030/cas/api
# Expected: HTTP/1.1 200 OK

curl -Iv http://localhost:8000/health
# Expected: HTTP/1.1 200 OK

curl -Iv http://localhost:3000/api/hello
# Expected: HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

## Step 5: Configure SSL & Reverse Proxy (Nginx / Load Balancer)

> Next, you will need to place a **reverse proxy or SSL endpoint** in front of your FiftyOne 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to place a **reverse proxy or SSL endpoint** in front of your FiftyOne 
```

Enterprise services. This can be a tool like:

> - **Nginx**
> - **HAProxy**
> - **Cloud Load Balancer** (e.g., AWS ALB, GCP Load Balancer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [nginx](https://nginx.org/)
- [HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/)
- Cloud Load Balancer
  - [AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB)](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/application-load-balancer/)
  - [GCP Load Balancer](cloud.google.com/load-balancing)
  - [Azure Load Balancer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-overview)
```

> These proxies will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A proxy will:
```

### 📁 Nginx Configuration Options

Voxel51 provides example Nginx configs for two routing strategies:

#### 🔹 1. **Path-Based Routing**
All services are routed based on URL path:

📄 Full configuration here: [`example-nginx-path-routing.conf`](./example-nginx-path-routing.conf)

#### 🔹 2. **Hostname-Based Routing**
teams-app and teams-api are routed using different subdomain or hostname:

- `fiftyone.your-company.com` → App
- `fiftyone-api.your-company.com` → API

📄 Full configuration here:
- [`example-nginx-site.conf`](./example-nginx-site.conf) (App + CAS)
- [`example-nginx-api.conf`](./example-nginx-api.conf) (API)

### 📌 Notes

- FiftyOne Enterprise supports routing traffic through proxy servers. Please refer to the 
[proxy configuration documentation](./docs/configuring-proxies.md) for information on how to configure proxies.
- To validate your deployments api connection, see [Validating Your Deployment](../docs/validating-deployment.md)

## Step 6: Configuring FiftyOne Enterprise Plugins

FiftyOne Enterprise supports three plugin modes: **Builtin**, **Shared**, and **Dedicated**. Each offers different 
trade-offs in isolation, flexibility, and resource management.

> ### 🔹 1. Builtin Plugins Only (Default)

Reviewer: Should we explain the benefit of builtin plugins (like we do for the other modes)?  Simplicity?

This is the default configuration. It enables only the plugins shipped with the platform.

✅ No additional configuration needed.

### 🔹 2. Shared Plugins (Custom Plugins in `fiftyone-app`)

> Custom plugins are run **within the same container** as the app (`fiftyone-app`). Use this if:
> 

Reviewer: Let's re-use the language and format like in the shared plugin mode

```suggestion
Custom plugins are run **within the same container** as the app (`fiftyone-app`).

Use this mode when:

```

- You want to quickly prototype plugins
- You’re okay with shared resource usage between app and plugins

#### Enable shared plugin mode:

1. Use `compose.plugins.yaml` (instead of `compose.yaml`)

> 2. This mounts a shared volume for plugins across services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. This mounts a shared volume for plugins across services
```

```
docker compose \
  -f compose.plugins.yaml \
  -f compose.override.yaml \
  up -d
```

> 📁 Plugins will run inside the `fiftyone-app` container.

### 🔹 3. RECOMMENDED: Dedicated Plugins (Isolated `teams-plugins` Service)

Custom plugins are run in a **separate `teams-plugins` container**, isolated from the app and API services.

Use this mode when:

- You want full isolation and stability
- You are running many or complex plugins
- You need to manage plugin memory or compute separately

#### Enable dedicated plugin mode:

1. Ensure your `.env` file includes the following:

```
FIFTYONE_TEAMS_PLUGIN_URL=http://teams-plugins:5151
```

2. Use `compose.dedicated-plugins.yaml` (instead of `compose.yaml`)

> ```
> docker compose \
>   -f compose.dedicated-plugins.yaml \
>   -f compose.override.yaml \
>   up -d
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```shell
    docker compose \
      -f compose.dedicated-plugins.yaml \
      -f compose.override.yaml \
      up -d
    ```
```

> 3. Optional: If using a [proxy server](./docs/configuring-proxies.md), ensure the plugin service is excluded from proxying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Optional: If using a [proxy server](./docs/configuring-proxies.md), ensure the plugin service is excluded from proxying.
```

```

This is useful for auditing, debugging, or monitoring delegated operator executions in shared storage or cloud buckets.

### 🖥️ GPU-Enabled Workloads

FiftyOne services like Delegated Operators can be scheduled on **GPU-enabled hardware** for more efficient computation.

To setup containers with GPU resources, see the  
[configuring GPU workloads documentation](./docs/configuring-gpu-workloads.md).

### 🧱 Custom Plugin Images

If your delegated operators or plugins require **custom dependencies**, build and deploy **custom plugin images**. 
You can base them on `voxel51/fiftyone-app`, and include:

- Custom Python packages
- ML libraries (e.g. PyTorch, OpenCV)
- Internal SDKs or models

## Step 8: Configuring Authentication (CAS)

FiftyOne Enterprise uses a Central Authentication Service (CAS) introduced in v1.6. This enables centralized 
login, roles, and user management.

### 🛠️ Optional: CAS Customization Instructions

1. Update required CAS variables in `.env`:
   - `FIFTYONE_AUTH_SECRET`
   - `CAS_BASE_URL`
   - `CAS_BIND_ADDRESS`
   - `CAS_BIND_PORT`
   - `CAS_DATABASE_NAME` (⚠️ Must be unique per deployment)
   - `CAS_DEBUG`
   - `CAS_DEFAULT_USER_ROLE`

> 2. Update `compose.override.yaml` with any needed `teams-cas` service changes.
> 3. Use `docker compose` from within the `legacy-auth`/`internal-auth` directory to bring up services.
> 4. Ensure your proxy (e.g., Nginx) forwards `/cas` to the CAS service port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update `compose.override.yaml` with any needed `teams-cas` service changes.
1. Use `docker compose` from within the `legacy-auth`/`internal-auth` directory to bring up services.
1. Ensure your proxy (e.g., nginx) forwards `/cas` to the CAS service port.
```
